So next I'm going to show an example of something that is a bit more realistic of why you would use
a class method so commonly class methods will be used when you're actually creating a new instance of
a class.
Let comments comments all this out.
Let's say I have I don't know I'm working with CSB files comma separated values and a lot of my data.
Each row looks like this or we have Tom comma Jones as a last name and then age like 89 and then another
row might be I don't know Sue comma.
Oh gosh this is the hardest part.
Coming up with names.
How about Pritchet.
I don't even know if that's how you spell it.
Who is 12 very old name for a 12 year old.
OK.
So if we have this data coming in obviously we cannot pass that in to use user as is like up here where
we're repassing in these three arguments.
But if we wanted to add a method to our class that would handle this for us because if this is a really
common use case this isn't a one time thing but the way our app is set up we have data coming in as
a string.
And I'm not just saying only as strings but if you have data coming in one way and you need to turn
it into another format before and it is called.
Sorry to interrupt here.
This is called from the future I thought of a good example for this is something we've already used
but I already recorded the video some inserting this somewhat awkwardly but this is the example of something
we've already seen as a class method that actually goes on and creates a new instance for us.
If you remember dict from Keys we had to call it with dict rather than the other dictionary methods
where we actually called them on an instance of a dictionary we called dict which is a class.
It's not capitalized because it's built in but conventionally if we created our own classic user it
should be capitalized and it was from kids does give it some sort of collection like let's go with name
and age and city and then the second argument is the value that it should be initialized to.
So these are all going to be keys and a corresponding value like unknown or none are zero.
And what this does is when we called dict dot from keys a class method it actually goes and then calls
dict like this.
And it basically passes in our data.
For us it turns it into this format which is going to return to us a new dictionary which is what we
see right here.
So this is like the preliminary step we call from Keys.
It's a class method that generates a new instance for us by calling the dictate class.
If that makes sense we're going to do the same thing with user but making a method that takes in a string
we'll call it from string.
And it returns a new user instance.
OK back to our regularly scheduled program.
What we can do is instead of doing user superjet passing that string in we can define a class method.
So another one and let's just call this one from string and it's going to be a class method so we need
C-L us and then let's call the second parameter like data string or something like this.
So this will be what is actually being passed in now to execute it.
We would not run like this.
It's not going to work.
First of all I should mention that.
But the idea is that we would call user data from string and pass this entire string in and it should
return to us a user that has first name Tom last name Jones age 89.
So it should take care of all of that for us.
So it needs to be a class method because we're actually going to call Class remember the variable class
is user itself.
So when we saw the string user it's the actual class user.
So what we could do if we called Class CFS and then I passed in John Stones comma sixty four sixty three.
This is going to make a new user because user is passed in his class because it's a class method.
So this is then going to call user Johnstone's so we can take advantage of that.
We have our string of data and need to indent everything and we're just going to split it on the.
So we can do a data as TR dot split on comma like that and then we'll sign three different variables
so I have first come a last comment.
Age equals the string dot split on the comma.
That gives us three variables and then we can just pass in first last and age.
Technically this will be a string so we can handle that.
And second and then we can just return this.
So this class method we call it we have to manually call it with from string but it's going to then
taken that data string split it up and then take the three pieces of data it split up and then create
a new user with it using less.
So instead of user there we'll call it CLX which is user is passed in automatically because it's a class
method of missing an s just realized and then that itself will then run a net just like this right here
where we call user Joe Smith 68.
Same thing here.
So we're going to return a new instance of user.
All right let's give it a shot.
So down here every user from string let's save it to a variable called Tom and then we'll do like print.
Tom dot first.
And let's try one of the methods like would we have full name.
Let's try executing it.
And I'm missing and colon.
It's been a while since and Mr. Colon hopefully you caught that before me.
Now let's try again.
All right.
So now we we can tell we've actually created a new user instance of the user class with first name is
Tom and we can see last name works because full name is printing out the last little thing we could
change is to make it an age so we could we could honestly just do this here and like that and we'll
just do print Tom birthday and we get happy 90th.
Tom so you went from being 69 to aging one to 90 69 other missing men from 89 to 90.
All right so let's wrap this up.
We saw class methods in this video.
They are methods where first we write the decorator class method to signify the following method is
a class method automatically when we call the method the class itself user is passed in.
So we want to name this parameter something that makes sense or CLSA is the standard.
And you only write these methods if you do not need access to any data about the instances or a particular
instance and you're doing something on the entire class level like we're doing here where we're actually
going on to create a new instance of the class.
So this is a common pattern if you have data that's coming in one way where you need to validate data.
You need to do something before a user is created or whatever the classes you could use a class method
to do it.
OK.
That's a lot I know.
Next more exercises.